The President:
Hi everybody.
This week, because Democrats
and responsible
Republicans came together,
the government was reopened,
and the threat of default
was removed from our economy.
There's been a lot
of discussion lately
of the politics
of this shutdown.
But the truth is,
there were no winners in this.
At a time when our economy
needs more growth and more jobs,
the manufactured crises
of these last few weeks
actually harmed jobs and growth.
And it's understandable
that your frustration
with what goes on in Washington
has never been higher.
The way business is done in
Washington has to change.
Now that these clouds of crisis
and uncertainty have lifted,
we need to focus on what
the majority of Americans
sent us here to do -
grow the economy,
create good jobs,
strengthen the middle class,
lay the foundation
for broad-based prosperity,
and get our fiscal house
in order for the long haul.
It won't be easy.
But we can make progress.
Specifically, there are three
places where I believe
that Democrats and Republicans
can work together right away.
First, we should sit down and
pursue a balanced approach
to a responsible budget,
one that grows
our economy faster
and shrinks our long-term
deficits further.
There is no choice
between growth
and fiscal responsibility -
we need both.
So we're making
a serious mistake
if a budget doesn't focus
on what you're focused on:
creating more good jobs
that pay better wages.
If we're going to free up
resources for the things
that help us grow -
education, infrastructure, research -
we should cut
what we don't need,
and close corporate
tax loopholes
that don't help create jobs.
This shouldn't be as difficult
as it has been in past years.
Remember, our deficits are
shrinking - not growing.
Second, we should
finish the job of fixing
our broken immigration system.
There's already a broad
coalition across America
that's behind this effort,
from business leaders to faith
leaders to law enforcement.
It would grow our economy.
It would secure our borders.
The Senate has
already passed a bill
with strong bipartisan support.
Now the House should, too.
The majority of Americans thinks
this is the right thing to do.
It can and should get done
by the end of this year.
Third, we should
pass a farm bill -
one that America's farmers
and ranchers can depend on,
one that protects vulnerable
children and adults
in times of need,
and one that gives rural
communities opportunities
to grow and the longer-term
certainty they deserve.
We won't suddenly
agree on everything
now that the cloud
of crisis has passed.
But we shouldn't hold back
on places where we do agree,
just because we don't
think it's good politics,
or just because the
extremes in our parties
don't like compromise.
I'll look for willing partners
from either party
to get important work done.
There's no good reason why
we can't govern responsibly,
without lurching from
manufactured crisis
to manufactured crisis.
Because that isn't governing -
it's just hurting the people
we were sent here to serve.
Those of us who have the
privilege to serve this country
have an obligation to do
our job the best we can.
We come from different parties,
but we're Americans first.
And our obligations to
you must compel all of us,
Democrats and Republicans,
to cooperate, and compromise,
and act in the best interests
of this country we love.
Thanks everybody,
and have a great weekend.